.Dd July 7, 2019
.Dt PASSGEN 1 URM
.Os Passgen v1.0.0
.Sh NAME
.Nm passgen
.Nd Generate passwords.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl vVh
.Op Fl a Ar amount
.Op Fl p Ar preset
.Op Ar pattern
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Generate passwords according to a given pattern, which is a regex-line string
description of the format of the password, or use a preset.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Ar preset
The name of a preset to use as pattern for the password. See section PRESET for
a list of available presets.
.It Ar pattern
The pattern to use for generating the password. See section PATTERN for more
information.
.El
.Pp
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl a, Fl -amount Ar amount                \"-a flag as a list item
Set the amount of passwords to generate.
.It Fl h, Fl -help
Show help.
.It Fl p, Fl -preset Ar preset
Use the specified preset to generate a password.
.El
.Sh PRESET
Presets are some sane defaults for generating passwords if you don't
specifically care about their format.
.Sh PATTERN
Patterns are regular-expression-like strings that allow specifying the format of
generated passwords. The allowed grammar is a subset of what regular regexes
support.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Generate a password using the "apple" preset.
.Pp
    $ passgen -p apple
.Pp
Generate 5 lowercase alphanumeric passwords with length 12.
.Pp
    $ passgen -a 5 "[a-z0-9]{12}"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr apg 1 ,
.Xr passwd 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "Patrick M. Elsen" Aq pelsen@xfbs.net