# Notes

## Dependencies

Passgen depends on `libutf8proc`, `libsodium` and `libjansson`. It also depends
on `meson` and `pkg-config` for building.

    # on macOS
    brew install pkg-config meson ninja utf8proc libsodium jansson

    # on ubuntu
    apt install build-essential pkg-config meson ninja-build libutf8proc-dev libsodium-dev libjansson-dev ruby

## Building

Use the Makefile to build the project. For example, to build it in release
mode, do:

    $ make release

When compiling, resulting files are placed in `./build/`. There are multiple
targets:

* `release` for a release build with optimisations enabled.
* `debug` for a debug build without optimisations, with debug symbols and
  `DEBUG` defined.
* `debug-address` for a debug build with LLVM AddressSanitizer.
* `debug-memory` for a debug build with LLVM MemorySanitizer.
* `debug-undefined` for a debug build with LLVM UndefinedSanitizer.

## Testing

Tests live in the `tests/` folder in the source tree. The files `generate.rb`,
`tests.c` and `tests.h` are part of the testing framework and don't need to be
touched, unless the testing framework needs to be adapted. All other files
contain tests. Every test looks like

```c
test_result test_name(void) {
    assert(4 == 4);

    return test_ok;
}
```

To add a new test, just add a new function with this layout to an existing
tests file. It will be picked up automatically.

To add a new test file, use an existing tests file as a template (it needs at
the very least to include the `tests.h` for the definitions). This test file
needs to be added to the `test_files` list in `meson.build`, otherwise it will
not be run.

To run all the tests, use the test target of the Makefile.

    make test

It is possible to run tests with a specific configuration. This allows you to run tests with a sanitizer enabled to check for memory leaks, invalid accesses or other kinds of errors. Do this by using the `TARGET` variable. For example, to run tests with the address sanitizer, run:

    make TARGET=debug-address test

## Benchmarks

Benchmarks live in `src/bench/`. 

To run all benchmarks, call

    make bench

Ideally, most of the code should have a benchmark to go with it. It is not
neccessary to optimize code for speed, but the benchmarks might be interesting
to see how the perfomance changes between versions.

## Actions

* `make format` to use clang-format to clean up the code.
* `make clean` to remove all build output.
* `make docs` build docs using doxygen.

## Tools

This repository also contains a few tools that are useful in working with or
inspecting the parsed data.

* `pattern-dump` parses a pattern and dumps it in a human-readable format.
* `pattern-choices` calculates how many possible choices there are for a given
  pattern.

## Releasing

When releasing a new version, be sure to change it in the `meson.build` file, which
contains the authoratative version number that is used to generate the man page
and the code.

Add a description of the changes to the `CHANGELOG.md` file, using the existing
as a templa.te

Create a tag for the version, named something like `v0.0.0`, and push it to
github.

    git tag v0.0.0
    git push origin v0.0.0

Then open the [tags list](https://github.com/xfbs/passgen/tags) on the github
project page, find the newly created tag, and click on "Make Release", filling
in all the details.

## Documentation

Documentation is autogenerated from the code (documentation comments starting
with triple forward slashes) using `doxygen` with the configuration in the
`Doxyfile`. There is a Makefile target to generate documentation into the
`docs/` folder:

    make docs

The documentation is published from the `gh-pages` branch. Use this workflow to
update it:

    $ git worktree add docs/html gh-pages
    $ make docs
    $ cd docs/html
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "updates docs"
    $ git push origin gh-pages
    $ cd ../../

To undo the worktree, do (from the main project dir)

    $ git worktree remove docs/html
    $ make clean

## Debian package

Experimental. There's a tutorial for it [here](http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/html_single/Debian-Binary-Package-Building-HOWTO/). Also see [this](https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-source.html#debian-changelog-debian-changelog).

There is a Makefile target for creating a debian package, but it is currently broken.

    make deb

## Bugs

It doesn't seem to parse `(a|b)[dfg912]` right?

## Todo

### Unicode Support

To support generating passwords in truly any language, the pattern parser needs
to be adjusted to understand unicode. For this, libraries for parsing and
emitting UTF-8 are necessary.

Use utf8proc as support library for this. The `utf8proc_iterate()` function can
be used to parse utf8 inside the `parse_char()` function, the data structures
need to be patched to use `uint32_t` instead of chars, and the
`utf8proc_encode_char()` needs to be used in the random pattern generation
functions to write out utf8.

UTF8 iterator parsing has already been implemented, what is still needed is to
bake this API into the code. Also, emitting UTF8 has yet to be done.

### [DONE] Range parsing

When parsing `[c-a]`, ~rewrite it to `a-c`~ cause an error and stop parsing.

### Implement error handling

Right now, parsing functions return `NULL` both when they encounter an error
and when there is nothing left to parse. This is suboptimal. They should also
return a proper error, maybe some kind of `parse\_error` that includes not just
the error kind but also some context like the position?

### Linear parsing

~Intead of parsing into a tree-like structure with linked lists, allow
parsing into a linear buffer.~ Not really necessary.

Instead, maybe some of the code could be changed from using linked lists to
using an array.

### Add return wrapper type for parsing

How about a `parse\_result` type with an okay field and an optional error?

### Abstract reading

~Add a `read\_type` struct that is generic over where to read from (such that
UTF-8 support can be made optional)~ overcomplicated, not really needed.

### Using getrandom

~Reading from `/dev/urandom` could be replaced with the `getrandom()`
syscall.~

Alternative idea: use `libsodium` randomness functions for operating system
independence.

### Implement custom randomness source

Use a custom random data stream (or a key file that is hashed and the hash used
to seed a PRNG?)

Idea: use `libsodium`'s stream ciphers, such as ChaCha20, XChaCha20, Salsa20 or
XSalsa20, along with a secret key or keyfile, to generate reproducible passes.

### Word List

Supporting the `\w` special character, along with a wordlist, should enable
[XKCD-936](https://www.xkcd.com/936/)-compliant passwords. This would
complicate the random generation code a bit in order to allow something like
`\w{5,8}` for a random word of length 5—8. Also, it means that passgen would
likely need to bundle some kind of wordlist.

Source for German words: [wortliste](https://github.com/davidak/wortliste).

Should the word lists be configurable?

### Pronounceable character strings

Supporting some kind of mechanism to generated pronounceable passwords should
be implemented.

### Supporting escape codes

Supporting escape codes like `\n`, `\t`, `\uAAFF`, `\xAF`, etc. should be
implemented. This needs to be done in the `parse\_char` method, most likely.

### Migrate pattern\_parse into pattern\_group\_parse

That makes more sense, and it allows pattern\_parse to do some error
checking/handling.

Also add another data structure, pattern_group, and make that wrapped by
pattern_t.

### Implement probability

For a range `[abc]`, implement something like `[a{9}bc]` to make `a` have 9
times the relative probability of the whole thing. This allows one to adjust
how often which items should be picked with a similar format to how lengths are
specified.

### Add disclaimer about timing sidechannels

When generating variable-length passwords, the length is a sidechannel.

### Write proper tokenizer for the parser.

Use a buffered tokenizer with peek().

This should be made to handle:

- escaped chars `\\, \n, \r, \(, \[`
- raw unicode chars `\u{a4}`
- regex special chars `\w, \s`

### Store offsets in the parsed structure

When parsign something, always store the offset in the source string.  That way
we can used the parsed data structure for other things, such as syntax
highlighting.

### Generate characters from custom languages

Support something like `\l{English}` or `\l{German}` to generate words from
that language or script.

To do this, data from
[CLDR](https://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/35/summary/root.html) can be used.

### Implement 

[RFC972](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc972) is about password generation.
Maybe there are more RFCs that are relevant.

### Remove PATTERN TYPE CHAR

Remove pattern type char and replace with pattern type sequence, reusing the
substring struct.

### Security features

`mprotect` to avoid passwords being swapped out? seccomp or similar mechanisms
to add protection?

### Write some JSON integration

Allow emitting a parsed object as JSON and allow reading as JSON.

### Packaging

The project should be available from some package managers.

- add a launchpad project for it
- add it to the AUR
- add it to homebrew

### Memory

Add two memory managers:

- static memory (preallocated buckets)
- checked memory (keep track of allocations, make sure everything is freed).

### Capturing groups

Does it make sense to support something like

    (abc|def)\1\1

Probably not, but might be fun to implement anyways.

### [done] Token

Add positions to token.

### Limit recursion depth

This might be useful to prevent stack overflows.
